---
title: MMM, Ma-Po Tofu !
date: 2021-10-26 00:00:24
categories: Recipe
tags:
    - Chinese Food
---

It might be a dish foreign for you; in fact, it was foreign to me too. Ma-Po tofu originates from a region in China but far away from my hometown. The first time that I had it was in my first year of college. It and me, both had left home, just met in a small restaurant next to our campus. Gladly, I was not alone, neither was the dish. There were new friends of mine sitting around a table, and Ma-Po Tofu took the center, having always had the charm to attract people from all over the country. It may be welcomed by people from all over the world one day.

On a simple plate with certain depth was Ma-Po tofu resting. The white plate made a perfect extension of the dish as the tofu was white itself yet the sauce all over it was flame red. The depth of the plate had to be perfect too as the sauce could be a little glutinous and soupy at the same time. A flat plate too shallow would not match the thickness of Ma-Po tofu. The tofu was cut into small cubes like dice and partly immersed in spicy vegetable oil. Red chili powder and green onion bits decorated the tofu cubes, like sprinkles, adding not only rich flavors but also festivity to the dish. Chopped garlic and ginger pieces may be easily ignored at the first glance, but they were still easier to detect than tiny, ground meat. The meat had been crisped in hot oil, being prepared to support the main role of tofu. Yes, the meat had to surrender and obey the spicy and fragrant of the rest of ingredients. The only purpose for all the ingredients was to give a wondrous taste for tofu that is usually considered the least tasty bean-based curd. While the original flavor of tofu retained, a variety of spices that marked the Sichuan region, from which the Ma-Po tofu originated, wrapped each piece of tofu. Aha! The wondrous taste had its most contribution from a special spice, Chinese pepper, the kind that numbs my tongue! It was ground and dredged on the ready dish at last. The brown powder camouflaged itself until my first bite. Anyone can recognize its distinctiveness.

The most recommended way to take Ma-Po tofu is to dip the tofu in the sauce a bit or to just use a spoon to take one piece of tofu and the sauce together. The essence in the taste was an incredible integration of different types of spicy tastes at different layers. The numbing sense gave it special magic to level up that mixed taste. Several small pieces of meat occasionally clung to the tofu or garlic. Although very small, the meat was crispy outside and tender inside, adding a playful element to other ingredients. Besides the dynamic flavors, tofu was still being itself: it was tender, smooth, pleasantly chewy, soft yet firm, just as it was before it was cooked. The texture of the tofu for this dish was something in-between of marshmallows and cheese. The tenderness and firmness remained; yet another level of slipperiness was built upon it because now the tofu was made hot, not only hot as spicy but also hot in temperature. At least it was warm enough that I wanted to take my time before taking anything from it. While the rich taste fills every corner of my mouth at once the first bite that I just had would smoothly slide to reach my throat and esophagus. Usually, eaters could not resist the fragrant warmth as soon as the dish was served, so they jumped into it. Just like taking an adventure in a wonder land of spices, you might want to do it slowly before suddenly getting your tongue, throat, and esophagus numbed or burned. Don’t ask me how I know it!

I remembered my lesson ever since but not always successful in applying it; my husband knows that because I sometimes make it at home now. Ma-Po tofu is a test even for masters as making tofu colorful and tasty is inherently a difficult task. But you do not have to make it as stylish as a chef’s signature, it is a treat itself. As a classic in the region where it originates, Ma-Po tofu is an easy, simple, low-key dish that everyone can make very home. It is popular but also homey. Its warmth and amora reminds eaters everything about home. This might have been the reason that we ordered a Ma-Po tofu at the dinner table when a bunch of first-year college students became friends and shared meals together.
